You know, I took it up and put it back in as an A. That didn't mean it.
But if one is interested in the history of that branch of the biblical scholarship, then the materials for that have to be every printing of every edition of these things, just as they would for a major author.
The physical form is important, just as it is.
I mean, I don't see how you can make a distinction between one category and another.
Therefore, I am collecting those people just as I would really an author of more literary work.
So that's one element in that that I think I would have that maybe a lot of other people wouldn't have.
One subgroup there is the circle of Michael Sadler, John Carter, Percy Muir, that group of English bibliographers who
were all connected with the book trade, either as publishers or book dealers.
And, I think they were all fascinating as individuals.
They were all, they really should be called scholars.
They're very good examples of people who are in the commercial book trade, and at the same time,
made an important contribution to scholarship.
I think Sadler is one of the most significant.
But John Carter, too.
And not for the ABC, which is a wonderful book, but it gets all the attention.
And the book called Taste and Technique in book collecting doesn't get as much attention, and yet I think it's really a great book.
That's a beautiful book, really, I think.
And it's, yes.
So, I try to collect those people and those scholarly editors and bibliography
as I would any other author, so I try to have all editions and printings.
Do you try to get all of his possible press books, too?
Well, I would.
I haven't gotten so far with that, but I would be interested in doing it.
I tried one of his novels.
He's dated, certainly, as an author.
He's a fascinating
Well, I'm certainly not that far, I mean, far from being the only person collecting Sadler and John Carter.
I think they're popular subjects to collect it.
But I don't know that there would be many people collecting Fredson Bowers, W. W. Gray, Robbie Maccaro, and so on, in this way.
Are they difficult books to find?
Well, they're very difficult to find.
And how do you do this through dealers?
Yes, and browsing, which I do constantly, too.
So, really, the only point I wanted to make was just... I think I saw you at the New York fairs.
No, I wasn't there.
Okay, it wasn't there.
I thought I saw you when I was taking radio and getting remote.
I was really kind of looking.
No, I didn't get there.
I don't really enjoy fairs.
The only reason to go is to see some people you don't get to see often, and I didn't go.
Okay, I thought I saw you from a distance.
And I really, I believe, by the way, that I know you're on the German board, and I'm one of their earliest champions of print.
In fact, they quoted me in a company.
I just think, in fact, I'm writing a column next week on the vintage, which is .
That's why .
I think those vintage paperbacks are handsome.
They're nice.
And I like the idea that they're just doing one theme.
Each one is out between two or three or four.
Well, it happened to be one paperback, I think.
Yeah, but it's good.
It's nice.
It serves an entirely different purpose and different market.
And I even have the metal.
Do you have the metal?
I know what you mean, but... Oh, you have the one.
I have the one.
Well, that has to be scarce.
It does.
Well, they said...
Dan Aaron told me that they gave subscribers the option of sending it in.
Don't be dead.
Everybody kept it.
I measure that, but I don't know what its name is.
No, I'm going to look for that.
Oh, great.
That'd be terrific.
I hope we can do this again at some point.
I know you're a busy man, and this is Robert Graves.
I'll shut this off.
Well, that's the point.
You'd have to check how reliable his memory is, but from what I can tell, there's nothing wrong with his mind.
Actually, he bought a couple of lots at the last Martin auction.
And I said to him afterwards, I said, Dave, are these for a client or a piece of butter for stock?
In fact, he sold me.
The preceding interview was conducted with G. Thomas Tensel, T-A-N-S-I-E-L-L-E, on April 25, 1990, in his office at the Liebenheim Foundation.
Mr. Zindler, I got your name here.
What are you talking about?
He was about to give me a quote.
There are more books you were going to say.
There are more women.
Oh, I like that even better.
We're here or in the
You want the ultimate quote?
There's no ultimate quote.
Pussy is wonderful.
What's the end of it?
What do you expect?
You have to break down women in categories of decades.
And among my new interests, as I age, I have come to realize that Nabokov was not wrong.
I used to turn the tape off, I'll tell you about what that was all about.
If you want to talk about books, which I'm more than happy to hear.
Well, I thought there's books that are interesting and good stories.
I'm looking for a little bit of glare, a little bit of some eccentricity.
I'm writing a book about book collectors.
There is a broad purpose thesis about how the book collectors are.
I have a few stories, probably.
I would think I have a few stories.
I have a number of stories, some of which may be interesting.
Are you obsessed?
I know a lot of people who would.
I disagree.
It's interesting and...
well i'm pleased to say this is no big deal but i do have every book that child has to be illustrated well that's nice now where are the originals well you know what there's a show at yale right now on all of his island garden pictures now the original royals are there
You cannot generalize or make absolute statements.
But having said that, you can make absolute statements.
All collectors deal.
It doesn't mean that all collectors are dealers, or all dealers are collectors, but all collectors deal.
If a collector does not deal, he is a monomaniac of some sort where he accumulates to himself whatever his universe is, but he's not... It's a different world of a collector, because collecting is an organic function, and it has to be a live function.
You have to take in and get out, and essentially...
discriminate.
And the mechanism of discrimination, which is individual, I mean, a lot of people I know that my particular mechanism is to, if I become interested in something,
tend to bottom fish.
I want everything of that something without any concern about condition.
I just want mass.
I want to be able to handle, because by handling products, you learn relative value, relative condition, and discrimination.
If you're going to go... Yeah, but I mean, by the same token, you're still looking for the best data.
I agree for that.
If you're the type of
You want only fine things.
The best things.
The best profits.
My feeling is that you are cheated.
It's like...
I have a few heroes in my life.
One of them is a guy named A.J.
Liebling.
And you should read him.
I read everything.
I proselytized Liebling.
I told you I'm a literary critic.
That's my business.
Okay.
Anyway, Liebling talks about eating good food.
And he says, you know, the guys that go to the finest restaurants don't know what goat's heads are, sheep's heads, or pig's knuckles.
There's no balance of...
of, let's say, the earthly delights.
You only have the finest things, which is fine for them, but to many people, these people are missing a vital function.
Can I give you an example of what you're saying?
I am the greatest respect for Dick Manning.
But he paid $200,000 for post-Tamilay.
My hero was the guy that bought it for $15 in the bin of trash.
Because he could have been me.
Because I go to these fucking places.
I really do.
I get down on my hands and knees.
I get dirty.
And sometimes I find something that's almost as good as a piece of that.
It is a charge.
Am I right or am I wrong?
It's almost as good as it be.
Sometimes, maybe even it is as good as it is.
I don't want to stretch the metaphor, but... Whatever it is, in a modest statement, there was a guy by the name of George Brimley.
I've got his catalogs.
Okay.
I don't think there has been any person who has acquired
a collection of American imprints.
Not that it approaches Brindley, but I mean, my collection of American imprints is the only major collection that has ever been done since then.
Brindley.
OK.
You say that categorically.
I'm telling you.
There's not some private guy out there that's also doing the same stuff.
That's it.
I have been, and it's not been a, it's not been a, well, I mean, I think I've been doing it for 10 years.
And what I found is that
There are very few people who are students of this universe, this little piss-ass universe.
Which universe are you talking about?
Rare books.
Certainly in America.
When I come to listen to this thing.
I have to know precisely what you're talking about.
The universe of rare books, the American universe of whatever you want to define as being rare books or book collecting.
Now, there are many collectors, there are many dealers there, whatever you want them to be, but students of the trade are very few.
I'm a student of the trade.
All right.
Name somebody important and go get a book for them.
I don't know Aaron Lansky.
Aaron Lansky's got a chapter in my book.
Aaron Lansky, I don't have to record.
Say that again.
No, I know no one.
I've got a major collection of books of first-rate collection of books.
That's what you're saying.
And anyway, I know no one.
And you said that.
I know no one.
What do you mean, I know no one?
I know no collectors.
This is the wonderful thing about it.
I know no collectors, okay?
I know no one in my field.
I've been walking along, even collectors.
I mean, I really, I shouldn't say I know no one, but as a general statement, I know all of the dealers in the world.
There isn't a dealer in the world of Americana that I don't know.
Why do you say Galbraith is the best deal ever?
I mean, is it because maybe he has things that appeal to you personally?
Are you making this as an objective evaluation?
Exactly.
He has one of the finest minds I've ever heard.
He's a good writer, too, actually.
He can't spell, but he's a good writer.
He has an encyclopedic knowledge.
He is a true academic.
He's been collecting books since he was about 9 or 10.
And he's got the money to back them up.
He's got everything going through.
He's a nice guy on top of it.
But I mean, uh... Yeah, he prints a beautiful catalog.
I think.
I had something to do with changing it.
There's much to compress.
I've only been getting it from the last year.
Um...
How did you develop it?
I'll make the event.
You'll come down one day to Art State.
Thank you.
I'll get some good...
I'll get some good ricotta.
I'll get some good cheeses.
I'll open up some wine.
You can have some red wine.
You can have some right wine.
I have a library next to my office.
I'll sit there.
I'll get Manny up from New York, who has better things to do, but he'll do this.
We'll open up some wine, and we will spend as much time as you want.
You can put the paper cutter on, and we'll talk.
Okay?
Let's do it within the next month or two.